CAL(1)                          User Commands                         CAL(1)

NAME         top

       cal - display a calendar

SYNOPSIS         top

       cal [options] [[[day] month] year]
       cal [options] [timestamp|monthname]

DESCRIPTION         top

       cal displays a simple calendar.  If no arguments are specified, the
       current month is displayed.

       The month may be specified as a number (1-12), as a month name or as
       an abbreviated month name according to the current locales.

       Two different calendar systems are used, Gregorian and Julian.  These
       are nearly identical systems with Gregorian making a small adjustment
       to the frequency of leap years; this facilitates improved
       synchronization with solar events like the equinoxes.  The Gregorian
       calendar reform was introduced in 1582, but its adoption continued up
       to 1923.  By default cal uses the adoption date of 3 Sept 1752.  From
       that date forward the Gregorian calendar is displayed; previous dates
       use the Julian calendar system.  11 days were removed at the time of
       adoption to bring the calendar in sync with solar events.  So Sept
       1752 has a mix of Julian and Gregorian dates by which the 2nd is
       followed by the 14th (the 3rd through the 13th are absent).

       Optionally, either the proleptic Gregorian calendar or the Julian
       calendar may be used exclusively. 
    
PARAMETERS      

       Single digits-only parameter (e.g. 'cal 2020')
              Specifies the year to be displayed; note the year must be
              fully specified: cal 89 will not display a calendar for 1989.

       Single string parameter (e.g. 'cal tomorrow' or 'cal August')
              Specifies timestamp or a month name (or abbreviated name)
              according to the current locales.

              The special placeholders are accepted when parsing timestamp,
              "now" may be used to refer to the current time, "today",
              "yesterday", "tomorrow" refer to of the current day, the day
              before or the next day, respectively.

              The relative date specifications are also accepted, in this
              case "+" is evaluated to the current time plus the specified
              time span. Correspondingly, a time span that is prefixed with
              "-" is evaluated to the current time minus the specified time
              span, for example '+2days'. Instead of prefixing the time span
              with "+" or "-", it may also be suffixed with a space and the
              word "left" or "ago" (for example '1 week ago').

       Two parameters (e.g. 'cal 11 2020')
              Denote the month (1 - 12) and year.

       Three parameters (e.g. 'cal 25 11 2020')
              Denote the day (1-31), month and year, and the day will be
              highlighted if the calendar is displayed on a terminal.  If no
              parameters are specified, the current month's calendar is
              displayed.

NOTES         

       A year starts on January 1.  The first day of the week is determined
       by the locale or the --sunday and --monday options.

       The week numbering depends on the choice of the first day of the
       week.  If it is Sunday then the customary North American numbering is
       used, where 1 January is in week number 1.  If it is Monday then the
       ISO 8601 standard week numbering is used, where the first Thursday is
       in week number 1.

COLORS        

       Implicit coloring can be disabled as follows:

              touch /etc/terminal-colors.d/cal.disable

       See terminal-colors.d(5) for more details about colorization
       configuration.

BUGS        

       The default cal output uses 3 September 1752 as the Gregorian
       calendar reform date.  The historical reform  dates for the other
       locales, including its introduction in October 1582, are not
       implemented.

       Alternative calendars, such as the Umm al-Qura, the Solar Hijri, the
       Ge'ez, or the lunisolar Hindu, are not supported.

HISTORY        

       A cal command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

AVAILABILITY         top

       The cal command is part of the util-linux package and is available
       from https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

COLOPHON        

       This page is part of the util-linux (a random collection of Linux
       utilities) project.  Information about the project can be found at 
       ⟨https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/⟩.  If you have a
       bug report for this manual page, send it to
       util-linux@vger.kernel.org.  This page was obtained from the
       project's upstream Git repository
       ⟨git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/utils/util-linux/util-linux.git⟩ on
       2019-11-19.  (At that time, the date of the most recent commit that
       was found in the repository was 2019-11-17.)  If you discover any
       rendering problems in this HTML version of the page, or you believe
       there is a better or more up-to-date source for the page, or you have
       corrections or improvements to the information in this COLOPHON
       (which is not part of the original manual page), send a mail to
       man-pages@man7.org

util-linux                      January 2018                          CAL(1)

    